Notes on cull.pl, DJN, 18-March-2010

Setup:
  It is a perl script so no installation is needed.
  I make a soft link from bin/cull to $TEMPO/util/cull/cull.pl 

Use (shown via examples):

To get a list of options:

  cull -h

The following takes all the TOAs from file 1234.tim (including TOAs
incorporated via INCLUDE statements), merges them into a single file
1234.new, and comments out any TOAs which had residual greater than 10
microseconds:

  tempo 1234.tim -f 1234.par
  cull -r10u 1234.tim 1234.new

If the parameters and TOAs are all in a single file (HEAD / TOA in the
file), cull will work as you would expect.  It copies the parameters from
the top of the old file to the top of the new file, then writes the
new TOAs in the body of the new file:

  tempo 1234.a
  cull -r10u 1234.a 1234.new

You can specify maximum residual in seconds ("-r10s") or milliseconds
("-r10ms").  To remove only positive residuals greater than 10
microseconds, use "-r+10u".  To remove only negative residuals greater in
magnitude than 10 microseconds, use "-r-10u".

If the .tim file INCLUDES a bunch of other files, and you want to preserve
that entire file structure, you can do so.  Use the "-o" option, and
specify an extension which will be added to the .tim file and all the
included files:

  tempo 1234.tim -f 1234.par
  cull -r10u 1234.tim -o abc

This creates output file 1234.tim.abc.  If 1234.tim uses include statements
such as "INCLUDE toa/1234.arecibo.800.toa", cull will create new files such
as "toa/1234.arecibo.800.toa.abc", and will set up 1234.tim.abc so that it
INCLUDEs these new files.

You can merge a tree full of INCLUDEd files into a single timing file,
including all TOAs (no actual "culling" of the data):

  tempo 1234.tim -f 1234.par
  cull 1234.tim 1234.all

If you want to remove (comment out) TOAs from TOAs which are in DMX ranges
which have a frequency spread of less than 25% (defining frequency spread
as (f_max-f_min)/(0.5*(f_min+f_max))), use the "-g" option:

  tempo 1234.tim -f 1234.par
  cull -g 1234.tim 1234.new

You can combine options, e.g., "-r10u -o".

Cull can do a *lot* of other things as well: exclude TOAs from specified
MJD ranges, exclude TOAs from specified frequency ranges, exclude TOAs from
specified orbital phase ranges, remove comment lines, convert 1966 day
numbers to MJD, convert Parkes/Jodrell TOAs to Princeton format, filter out
TOAs using various DMX/multifrequency criteria, merge TIME statements into
TOAs, replace JUMPs with TIME statements, replace raw TOA errors with
EFAC/EQUAD/EMIN'd values, remove zero-weight points, remove SKIP'd
sections.


